Title: Naphthalene
Author: Andrey Pissantchev

If you're wondering at what point to start a story, the point when someone
falls from a window is always a safe bet. There's a few subconscious
cues it sets: it could signal an irreversible chain of events, say, and
the violent end of the fall could foreshadow an even more gruesome
resolution. On a plot level, it raises a number of convenient questions
on the reader's part. "What sort of event led to this?" "Was the person
driven to jump out by an unseen agent, or some overpowering
circumstance?" "Could it have been a murder? I *love* me a good murder."

An enfenestration on the other hand is a much different framework, and
is a breath of fresh air in more ways than one.

Whereas the alternative tells of a violent outburst, a lone crash and a
scream echoing through an otherwise calm night, a body thrown through a
window *from the outside* speaks of a chaotic world bursting into your
everyday life. It's a reminder that you're not safe. No matter how many
obstacles you put up, weirdness will always find its way in. The wind
will make its way through your curtains, the crystalline sound of glass
settling will contrast with the painful shatter only a few moments
prior, and with it, the vague thought will form that perhaps dishing out
for that double glazing wasn't worth it after all.

Spare a thought for the stranger on your carpet, too. He groans, and
brushes off grains of glass from his face with a hand he's surprised to
find isn't quite as lacerated as one might expect. His story is much
stranger than yours.

![plick falls into a flat](1.png)

"A cup of tea would be nice," Richard Plick thought of saying, but he
had a feeling he wasn't going to get any, and he was right. 

---

What followed was not exactly a breeze, yet it went thankfully fast.

He sat politely as the owners of the flat called the police and, once
arrested, tried to answer the questions as well as he could. The
policewoman who interviewed him, a gruff and no-nonsense type of lady,
refused to take his explanation at first.

"Nonsense," she had said. "I am having none of this."

Plick had assured her that he was every single bit as confused as she
was, yet he was telling the truth.

He was allowed to leave on bail until the authorities could figure out
exactly what he was to be charged with. Obviously, there had been a
break-in, but the how and why of it was lacking. The accusation, which
claimed Plick had scaled up to the 7th floor and broken through the one
window that had its light switched on, seemed as likely as Plick's own
explanation of having been flown there by a gigantic moth.

The young man who saw him out seemed a bit more receptive. "If you're
telling the truth, probably a good idea to keep your eyes on the skies."

That Plick did. He also bought a cheap cricket bat from the first shop
he saw, just in case watching out wasn't enough.

---

That night, Plick
stayed up late, his cricket bat in hand. On the building opposite was
the moth, almost imperceptible, but still very much there. It circled
the windows, flicking its wings nervously.

Plick wasn't sure he wanted to risk going out. He opted for a pizza
delivery.

*Do moths only hunt at night?* Plick thought as he finished a slice. And
as he drifted off over the box, his last thought was a hazy *Do moths
*hunt*?*

Inside Plick's wardrobe at the other end of the flat (which is,
realistically, what he should've been keeping his eyes on), a coat
stirred. It was a coat Plick had forgotten he had. A sound much like a
zipper being ripped open filled the room; the body of the coat inflated,
the sleeves filled out one by one. The packet of cigarettes in the
pocket, a remnant of Plick's brief stint with smoking a few years back,
were gripped by a hand which was not there some moments before.

A muffled curse as a lighter failed to turn up in any of the other
pockets.

A figure snuck about the flat for a minute or two. "Ah-ha," it said,
finding a box of matches in a drawer.

"Richard," a voice said softly.

Plick almost fell off his chair. "Moths don't smoke!" he near yelled. He
looked around. "---wha?"

The coat-being touched the end of his cigarette to the end of his hook.
The tip glowed bright and receded by a sizable amount.

"What...are you?" Plick asked.

"Why," the reply came, "I protect you from the elements. I am that keeps
you warm. I am the pocket that keeps your most prized of possessions
close at heart."

Plick blinked.

"I'm a coat."

"Oh," said Plick.

"If it makes things easier for you, call me---um," he pulled his collar
out to check the label. "Winchester. That's a good name."

"Oh. Kay. How do you talk?" Plick rubbed his eyes. "Wait--- how do you
smoke? Where d'you get these?"

Winchester waved vaguely, the smoke from Plick's cigarettes forming
curious shapes in the air. "All paltry details. What *is* important
is---this." He pointed out into the night.

"The window?"

"The moth."

"The moth," Plick repeated.

"Indeed," Winchester nodded, somehow. "The moth. The leather-winged
beast that stalks the night sky. Our common adversary. You see, you have
a good taste in coats." He pulled his lapels to drive his point across.

"Thank you," Plick said, unsure.

"But so does the moth. I am not talking fashion sense, of course. I'm
talking *taste*. Flavour! That demon will not stop until it has ravaged
every single bit of corduroy, torn up all the tweed in this town. Do you
understand? Neither you," he put his arm around Plick, "nor I are safe.
Not while *it* is around."

Plick tried to shake off Winchester's arm, but it only tightened around
his shoulders. It smelled of oak and damp.

"Let me ask you, Richard. You have been keeping an eye on that creature,
yes?"

"Yes."

"And its presense, does it unnerve you?"

"Quite a bit actually, yes."

"And the shadow this wreched monstrosity casts on your life, the
prospect of living in it makes you afraid---no---terrified?"

"Um, kinda. I guess."

"Say yes."

"Y--- yes."

"Well, my friend! It has been settled. We shall fight the beast
together---tomorrow. For now, we must rest. A clear head---our wits are our
first and strongest weapon."

With that, Winchester positioned himself on Plick's sofa and propped his
hook on his hands.

"Sleep well, Richard."

"Um," Plick said and hobbled off to bed. "'Night." "Observe, Richard.
Breakfast!"

Plick groaned as he realised his memories from last night were in fact
not a dream.

"Sit yourself down, Richard. I've done some eggs. Coffee is almost ready
too."

The eggs were burnt to a crisp, and the coffee was a black pit of
despair.

"I'm not really hungry," Plick said. He really was.

"Well, you will need to fortify yourself---we've a long day ahead of us. I
have spent the whole morning hatching up a plan of action. This head of
mine is yet to fail me." He tapped the little ball at the end of his
hook, and it emitted a slight *ping*.

"The first order of business is," he continued, "You will need to go and
find us some naphthalene."

"Some what now?"

"Naphthalene, Richard. Moth balls. The good stuff."

Winchester looked at Plick conspiratorially. *How can a coat hanger be
looking at me conspiratorially?* Plick asked himself. *I must be going
mental*.

"Where do I get that?" he asked.

"Ask," said Winchester simply, "and you shall receive." When Plick
failed to react, he elaborated. "Any chemists should be able to procure
you some."

The phone, so far used solely to convey poorly targeted sales calls,
rang. Winchester averted his gaze from the television and observed it
blankly, the only way he was capable of observing anything. A few rings
later, he reached towards it.

"You have reached the residence of Richard, this is Winchester speaking.
How can I be of assistance?"

It was Plick.

"I've been to seven different shops! None of them actually stock
naphthalene anymore, they said. I managed to find some herbal stuff
though. This one says it's---" A brief pause. "lavender-based. Smells sort
of nice. Will it do?"

Winchester looked puzzled.

"Lavender? Poor misguided Richard, flowers just won't do. We're dealing
with a wild animal. Would you ever try to stop a bear with a fistful of
begonias? I think not. It is a ridiculous notion."

"So you're sure this naphthalene stuff is what we need?"

"Absolutely so. Naphthalene is the stuff that works---I've used it before,
after all. It is crucial for our plan that this is the exact kind of
mothball you use. Are you sure you went to the right shops? Last time I
checked every place worth giving your hard-earned bob to was selling
napthalene."

"Right, I'll check some more places." Plick hung up, and Winchester
changed the channel yet again.

Plick only managed to come back in the evening. Further trips to
chemists and the like had proved fruitless, though in a flash of
brilliance, Plick had gone to a small novelty and antiques shop, wherein
he found a small box leftover from a few decades ago. This fact did not
do much to improve his confidence in Winchester's plan.

"There," Plick said. "It was really hard to find. Guy who sold it to me
said it was very flammable, so you really--- *hey!*"

"What?" Winchester asked, leaving the whiskey bottle on the table.

"That was a present from a mate." Plicked lifted the bottle up and shook
it, the remainder of its contents swilling about miserably. "I'd only
had a couple of sips."

"Not to worry, my friend. The road we have embarked on---it comes with
many a prizes of its own."

"Well I'll keep the rest of this as my prize, thank you very much," he
said, clutching the bottle protectively. "Have you cooked?"

He hadn't: this stage of the plan required far too much of his mental
capacity to allow him to spend time, as he put it, "being a maid". This
was his excuse for not doing the dishes from breakfast, too.

Plick was too tired to even wait for a takeaway to arrive, so he had
some toast and went to bed.

"Now you need *what*?"

"It would act as the perfect bait, Richard! Think about it. As coats get
older, they obtain a certain..." he waved his hand uncertainly, "*je ne
sais quoi*. An aroma, if you will. We have our fine wine---moths have
their fine coats. It's the way things are."

"So you're absolutely sure a cheap one for a fiver won't do?" Plick
asked.

"I'm afraid not," Winchester shook his head.

"How about I just use you as a bait instead?" Plick muttered as he
walked out again.

"*I heard that!*"

When Plick came back, he found the coat-beings had somehow multiplied,
whipped out some cards and completely polished off his whiskey.
Cigarette butts were lying all around in improvised ashtrays that were
scattered throughout the room without any apparent logic. Several butts
had missed the mark by some distance---by a quirk of gravity they stood
perfectly suspended, filter up, on his table, sofa and carpet.

"Who the hell are you?" Plick asked.

"Welcome back, Richard," Winchester said, "I assume you haven't had the
pleasure yet. These are---"

He extended his hand to the two newcomers, his genial manner interrupted
by a small burp.

"Fenland..."

Fenland took Plick's hand and shook it roughly.

"Pleased to meet yous," he said.

"...and Tarpit."

Tarpit looked Plick up and down coldly.

"And this is Richard, whom I have courteously agreed to include in our
little venture."

"Um," Plick said.

Fenland and Tarpit were far from Winchester's civil old-timey demeanour.
Fenland sat hunched over the table, holding his cigar as if it was his
sole link to reality. Tarpit was slumped back on his chair and yet, even
from that position, somehow managed to loom.

Plick vaguely recognised the two coats as his own.

"Now, Plick---let's see what you've got."

Plick took out the coat from his bag. It was a superb make: slick brown
and corduroy, with lapels peeking out over the shoulders in a way that
was *just right*. Its owner would've seen a lot of action in the
seventies.

"Well, well, would you look that," Winchester muttered. He nudged
Fenland with his elbow. "Fenland, Tarpit, have a look!"

The three burst out laughing: Winchester emitted protracted, deep
guffaws, Fenland let out short series of barks one by one, and Tarpit
allowed himself a few mid-pitched sniggers.

"Who's that?" Plick asked.

The three of them quietened down.

"Just an old acquaintance of ours. Nothing to worry about, Richard.
You've done well. Very well, as a matter of fact." He bent down to the
coat and growled: "Didn't think we'd all end up like this, did you, old
sport?"

Tarpit took a deep toke from his cigarette, and pressed the tip against
the shoulder of the new arrival. At this the three exploded again with
renewed mirth.

Plick's concerned look did little to phase Winchester.

"Do not fret too much about this, Richard. He's bait anyway."

Plick wagged the newly acquired coat in front of the window.

"You're the only one in this room whom this monster cannot eat up
whole," Winchester had said as he was explaining the plan but, as Plick
now realised, he didn't mention the moth savaging Plick, crushing him
with its weight, or taking him away into the night like last time.

"Guys, I don't think this will work," Plick yelled out to the rest. "I
think we should rethink what we're doing."

"You are talking nonsense, my dear Richard!" Winchester replied, "We are
so close to success I can practically *smell it*. Can *you* smell
success, Tarpit?"

Tarpit growled agreement from behind the curtain just next to Plick.
From his steely hook-gaze, Plick could imagine he was smelling a host of
other things, including Plick's own fear.

All the others had taken their places according to the plan: Fenland was
hulking next to the light switch, cricket bat propped next to him, and
Winchester himself was positioned next to the kitchen door. Everyone
except for Plick had stuffed their pockets, inside and out, with
mothballs. Plick wasn't allowed any---Winchester had told him that it
would lessen the bait's efficiency.

"I think I see it," Winchester said suddenly.

Plick looked outside. A black, insect-like silhouette was definitely
circling the façade of the building opposite. It went around in its
inexorable path, tracing what seemed to Plick to be infinity signs, over
and over again. Sweat was streaming off his forehead, and he found
himself wondering if his perspiration would repel the animal or
conversely, make him appear as tasty as any garment.

The shape stopped meandering. Plick squinted. It was increasing in size.

"It comes," whispered Winchester. "Get ready!"

A flurry of leather and chitin took Plick's breath out, throwing him to
the ground. A flash and then blackness was all he could see---though a
rapid succession of sounds told him the coat-people followed their parts
of plan within the second: a thump as Tarpit shut the windows behind the
moth, a click as Fenland flipped the light switch, a creak as Winchester
flung the kitchen's door open.

Chaos reigned for the next few moments. There were crashes and scrapes,
plenty of stumbling and cursing, footsteps mixed with pattering of
insect claws. Plick could feel the wind from the moth's wings against
his face as it fluttered around the room, so he lifted his hands to
protect himself. Then, someone stepped on his stomach and Plick doubled
over, only to have someone else trip on the back of his head.

"To me! To me!" Winchester cried out from the other end of the room.

Plick heard Tarpit and Fenland yell, and the flapping of the moth
subsided towards the lights of the kitchen.

Then, the kitchen door slameed, and Winchester laughed with triumph.

"We did it! *Ha!*"

The light came back on. Plick opened his eyes to the aftermath of the
capture. He could only stare with disbelief.

He ignored the whoops and cheers of Winchester and the rest, but he did
walk around the room surveying the damage. He looked forlornly at the
couple of chairs that were clearly beyond repair. His TV was a barely
recognisable silicon-and-plastic pulp, his DVD collection had achieved
an almost even spread through the carpet of the living room. The moth's
rampage in the kitchen was all too audible. By now, half the kitchen was
probably a write-off.

He approached Winchester.

"Richard, we got it! We've got what we wanted. We captured the moth!"

"Now look," Plick told him. "You've stayed in my flat for a few days and
you've made an absolute arse of yourself. I stayed quiet as you abused
my hospitality, drank my whiskey, and turned my house into goddamned
ashtray. But this---" he pointed to the disarray around him "---this is too
much. So you've captured your moth. Good for you! But how the hell am I
going to sort out my living room now? I'll need to get a new TV, sort
out my DVD collection---and all this furniture belongs to my landlord.
What do you think I should tell him?"

The clatter from the kitchen filled what would've otherwise been a brief
moment of silence.

"And are you going to keep this thing in there? Where will I eat til
then? If...if there's even a kitchen left in there at all?"

Winchester had just taken out a fresh cigarette. He looked unimpressed.

"I don't think eating should be your main concern right now," he said.

"Wha?" Plick wavered. The smell of mothballs was making him lightheaded.
"Why shouldn't I---"

He suddenly felt a pair of sleeves wrap around his neck. Another pair
went for his arms. He tried screaming, but all that came out was a sorry
rasp.

He flailed around in an attempt to break free. And then---
